Keepalived
==========

The Keepalived setup has a more sophisticated setup with failover load balancing
handled by [Keepalived](https://www.keepalived.org/) and Linux
[IPVS](http://www.linuxvirtualserver.org/).

This approach manages a single Virtual IP that is mapped to several real IPs.
Keepalived does the liveness detection and mapping, utilizing the underlying
Linux kernel IPVS support. This should be pretty efficient, as there is no
traditional usermode load balancer involved. Unlike the [Simple](../simple/)
example, this one does round-robin between the Unbound resolvers.

The `dnsnet` is now an l3s ipvlan, using a `eth0.53` subdevice of the main
network interface. This way, we get decent isolation between `dnsnet` and the
host network, to ensure the host and docker resolvers don't interfere with
eachother. The `eth0.53` interface is mapped as `eth1` in the containers.

The use of Keepalived is overkill, since we only need it for monitoring the
Unbound resolver containers, not any of the fancy VRRP failover stuff. But it
was the best initial tool I found that can manage the IPVS RealIP management.

The failover is a bit slower than I would like â€“ if you bring down one of the
Unbound containers, there will be a few seconds "burp" where DNS lookups stall,
but at least no dropped requets. Keepalived measures it's timeouts in seconds,
and using `nslookup` to detect liveness is probably a bit heavyweight.

The Unbound config has been hardened slightly, specifying listen-interface and
access-control.

There's still a fair bit of polish to do - as it is now, the Keepalived
container has to be run outside the compose stack (not sure if it's possible
to integrate it?), and I haven't written scripts for the setup yet. There's
several fiddly things that are necessary:

```sh

docker run --rm -it --privileged --network host alpine /bin/sh -c "\
 sysctl net.ipv4.vs.conntrack=1 &&
 sysctl net.ipv4.vs.expire_nodest_conn=1"

docker run --rm -it --cap-add NET_ADMIN --network host alpine /bin/sh -c "\
  apk add iptables && \
  ip link add dnsnet-host link eth0.53 type ipvlan mode l3 && \
  ip addr add 192.168.100.254/24 dev dnsnet-host && \
  ip link set dnsnet-host up && \
  iptables -t nat -A POSTROUTING -s 192.168.100.0/24 -o dnsnet-host -j SNAT --to-source 192.168.100.100"
```

So, IPVS only doest DNAT, but we need SNAT for replies from Unbound to be routed
back to the requesting containers. The `vs.conntrack` setting is absolute
necessary for this, and the `iptables` rule finishes that part of the magic.

The `expire_nodest_conn` makes IPVS remove dead RIP connections faster, reducing
the risk of dropped requests.

The `ip link` section is necessary to let the host network communicate with the
ipvlan. Yes, it's not just the host that is isolated from the containers,
without the explicit link the subinterface is isolated from the hsot as well.
Neat.

Invoking Keepalived:
```sh
docker run -it --rm --name keepalived --network host \
  --volume ./keepalived.conf:/etc/keepalived/keepalived.conf:ro \
  --cap-add=NET_ADMIN --cap-add=NET_BROADCAST --cap-add=NET_RAW \
  visibilityspots/keepalived:latest
```

NOTE: unbound.conf from the `klutchell/unbound` image has been added here, but
odified to remove the interface and access-control configurations, since that
can't be removed in the override config - but we're still using the override
conf for our specific settings of interest, so it's easy to see how it differs
from [simple](../simple/).

TODO: figure out if e.g. the `net.ipv4.vs.*` sysctls are global, or namespaced.
During testing, I *think* they're actually namespaced, but they need to be run
in privilegede containers if set on the host network. Now that I have the setup
working, it would be interesting to see if Keepalived *needs* to be on the host
network, or if things can be shuffled around...

TODO: figure out if the Keepalived container can be added to compose.yaml, even
though it has to be on the host network, needs capabilities etc. Figure out if
we can use something like a `--privileged` init-container to set the `ip link`
and sysctl stuff.

TODO: check the performance implications of the vlan'ing.

TODO: check if we might actually *need* this (or some subnetting) to get the
necessary packet rewrite working.

TODO: fork `klutchell/unbound` to allows config from environment variables,
so `listen-interface` could use IP address instead of the `eth1` interface.
